Hello this is Carol for boat dot com.
And welcome back to the course on testing and optimization in meditator for the previous tutorial we
talked about the recovery factor.
And today I will give you some recommendations around which parameters you should focus on when optimizing
your systems in Medicare for.
So the three main parameters that you should be looking at are the profit factor the drawdown and the
recovery factor.
And the main rule of thumb is for you to look for a profit factor above 1.6 a drawdown of under 15 percent
and the recovery factor of above 2.
And in terms of drawdown if you have very risk averse you can lower this to 10 percent so you'd be looking
for a system to have a maximal drawdown of 10 percent or if you're a risk seeking then you could increase
this up to 30 percent.
It all depends on what kind of person you are and what kind of risks you're comfortable with.
Also you'll find that these three parameters and their values come up a lot in discussions on different
forums forums of about X and in the research papers from academia and even from live trading.
And what they mean is that if a system does follow these parameters then it can be considered more or
less stable and that doesn't mean necessarily that this system will always be profitable nor does that
mean that systems that don't follow this rule are not profitable.
You can always find a system that is not in line of any of these rules but it still yields result in
good results.
But what this does mean is that youre more likely to get good results from a system that follows these
criteria and that your results are more likely to be consistent.
So it is advisable to try to optimize your systems in a way that you achieve this criteria.
So lets go back to our sewer system which is simple system or in 5.0.
And look at this on an example here in front of us I have the exported optimization results which we
put into excel in the previous tutorial I've highlighted the three parameters that we're looking at
the profit factor of the drawdown in terms of percent and the recovery factor which we calculated ourselves
which we introduced as formula in the previous tutorial because this parameter is not calculated and
meditate for.
So now we want to find the BAC tests that fit the criteria looking for.
So for starters we will highlight the ones that we don't like and to do that we'll select the column
we'll click conditional formatting will highlight cells and we'll highlight all the cells that are less
than.
And here we're going to type in 1.6 because that's what we're looking for then we'll do the same thing
for drawdown.
We'll highlight Sellersburg we'll highlight cells that are greater than and in this case we want all
the cells that are greater than 15 percent.
OK I'm just gonna copy the format here.
And finally same thing for the recovery factor.
Conditional Formatting highlights cells that are less than 2.
So if we scroll down you will see the red cells are the ones that don't fit the criteria and therefore
the associated back tests or sets of parameters are presenting those back Tests should probably not
be considered for a demo or or specialty live real training.
So as you can see as we scroll down because these results are ordered by profit the number of red is
increasing and so far we haven't had a huge drawdowns by 15 percent.
But there we go there's the first one and now they start coming up.
So if we keep scrolling down you'll see the amount of bread is increasing more and more and more until
we don't have any stable results at this point and at this stage at all and then when you get to the
negatives the read is just everywhere.
So next what we want to do is we want to exclude these completely from our analysis so they don't clutter
this report and want to do that.
We can select the ribbon up here or the first row and we'll click Dadda click filter which will add
a filter to this row.
And now we're just going to filter them out.
And it's very easily done if you go to if you click on this button over here for the filter you go to
number filters.
And up here you want to leave only the good ones.
So we want greater than or equal to.
And here we want to type in 1.6 click OK.
So as you can see all the red ones have been taken out.
Same thing we want to do for the drawdown number filters less than we want to even do less than or equal
to just one less than 15 percent click OK.
And finally recovery factor number filters we want greater than or equal two to two.
And as you can see we've removed all of the red and we're left with a very limited number of results
.
And here we can see that we have a total at the bottom if we look we have a total of 49 left out of
the three thousand nine hundred seventy one.
So Excel exporting daughter to excel and analyzing it just just through these three parameters allows
you to significantly reduce the number.
The amount of manual work that you have to do now you only have 49 out of three thousand eight hundred
seventy one.
If you really wanted to you could run all these Forty-Niners back tests and actually look at the charts
and pick out one that you like the most and you'll know that in terms of the three parameter criteria
it's more likely to be stable.
And plus you've actually visually analyzed the rest of them so you know that that is the one.
Exactly.
So let's have a look at one fruit for instance.
And out of them.
Well let's have a look.
For example this one this one kind of stands out just as an example that it is not the top one but it
does have a profit factor more than the top one.
It does have a relatively small drawdown and good recovery factor above 2 and it still has a high number
of traits.
So let's look at that one.
We just have to remember the pause is 1 4 7 7.
Now if we go back to Ameritrade for optimization results there it is still ordered by profit and you
can find right here 1 4 7 7 if you can find it just order by pass and then search for it.
But just scrolling down you will be able to locate it easily said input parameters to start optimization
.
Look at the graph.
So and if you like the graph then maybe you should consider this set of parameters for your demo test
a real test what else you can do now is that you can maybe do some further analysis and maybe take out
the mid limit that you don't like say if you don't like 10 or you don't like 9 8 7 6 all of those then
you'll be left with small mean limits.
You can analyze other parameters or you can even make the criteria more stringent so greater than or
equal to because remember the 1.6 value is a minimum.
So how about we set that to 2.
We set the profit factor to be at least two.
And then we set the recovery factor to be at least 4 4 for instance or double the required minimum.
Right away we're left with only 4 optimization results that fit this criteria.
And as you can see the expected payoff here is very good it's around 60 or $80 mark.
So that's per trade net profit per trade.
Profit Factor is great drawdowns very low recurring factor is great.
So and all it took us less than 5 minutes to come up with these results out of these four results out
of three thousand nine hundred seventy one record.
And that just shows how you can very quickly to get rid of all this manual work and just come up with
the best results by analyzing your optimization output.
So I think that's enough for today.
Have a play around with that.
I hope it's all pretty straightforward if you do have any questions please let me know I'm always glad
to assist you and help you out in the next tutorial.
We will talk about the genetic algorithms so be quite an interesting one.
And I look forward to seeing you there.
Until next time happy training.